We do want to bring you some
breaking news, though, right now.
CNN's Alex Marquardt has that for us.
Alex, this has to do with the hostages
that were being held in Gaza by Hamas.
Yeah, Boris and Brown,
who understand
that two of the American hostages
who have been held
by Hamas are on their way
out of the Gaza Strip.
We've just learned this
from a person
who is familiar with the discussions,
as well as a diplomatic source
who has spoken to my colleague,
Kaitlan Collins.
As we know from the Israelis,
there have been around
200 hostages who have been held
by that militant group, by Hamas
since the horrific attacks inside
Israel on October 7th.
What we understand
from these two sources
is that the two Americans
are a mother and a daughter.
They are currently, we're told,
with the Red Cross
and heading south in the Gaza Strip.
There are two crossings in southern Gaza,
one that goes into Egypt,
the other that goes into Israel.
So right now,
we're not sure about which country
they will be going into.
We're also unclear on the identities
of this mother and child, but we are told
that they are being released
on humanitarian grounds.
That's according to a source
that I spoke with,
because the mother is not in good health.
Now, of course, and Brianna,
this has also been announced by Hamas.
A spokesman
for the militant group
said that the mother and daughter
are also being released,
they say, on humanitarian grounds, but
also because they want to
contest the claims being made by Biden
and what they call
his fascist administration,
because there are false and baseless.
So we have this
mother and daughter, American citizens,
who have been held by Hamas
for much of the past two weeks.
Now, we understand
with the Red Cross on their way
out of Gaza, guys.
And Alex, to clarify quickly
the next steps.
Is it clear
exactly where they're headed next?
Is it going to be Egypt or Israel?
What do we know now? There are two.
There are two crossings, two gates
in the southern part of Gaza,
one called Kerem Shalom,
which is between Gaza and Israel.
The other one, Rafah,
which we've been talking about
so much because of
the question about aid.
And that is where the aid
would go from Egypt into Gaza.
So right now, it is not clear for us.
Certainly they were abducted in Israel.
We know that.
So there is, of course,
a good chance
that they could be then
taken back into Israel.
But at the same time,
it may just be easier
for whatever reason, logistics,
operational security, to
to have them go into Egypt.
But I think
one of the important points is now
they're there with an independent party
there with the Red Cross, the Red Cross,
And so that is the best news.
They are no longer.
We understand, in Hamas custody,
although, of course, Hamas does control
the entire Gaza Strip.
So this is not a done deal.
Things are still
obviously extremely fluid.
But here we have both our sources outside
of Gaza as well as Hamas themselves
saying that these two Americans
are being released.
All right, Alex,
I want to bring in Kaitlan Collins,
who is in Tel Aviv.
The two of you reported this story out.
Kaitlyn, is there anything
and I don't even know
if there's an answer to this
at this point,
but can we read
into anything at this point
if the they're being released
because the mother is in poor health.
Could this be an acknowledgment
on the part of Hamas
that they need to perhaps release people
who are not doing well,
that they want people
who maybe are in good health
if they are going to be
using them as pawns as they perhaps later
try to utilize them in
some kind of prisoner exchange?
Can we read into anything at this point?
I think a lot of that remains to be seen.
I mean, this was a big question.
Once Hamas had captured
so many of these hostages
and taken the boat into Gaza
after that
October 7th attack,
that was a
question
was if they are going to try to use them,
as we had seen in the past
when Hamas had kidnaped an IDF officer,
that there was a lot of negotiation
over, that it took years.
And in the end, Israel released,
I believe there's about a thousand
Palestinian prisoners in exchange
for that Israeli officer.
And so that was kind of the basis
that people were looking
at these hostages and the questions over
what would happen here.
And we've heard Israeli officials
say they were not negotiating with Hamas
for an exchange for the hostages.
But this news is incredibly significant.
I mean, these hostages, of course,
there's been an open question
of what their fate would be,
what would happen,
especially as we are waiting to see
that ground incursion potentially happen.
And I can just tell you,
we have not heard anything
from the prime minister's office
here in Tel Aviv tonight
on the release of these two
American hostages
that Alex and I have reporting on.
They have not confirmed it.
We are waiting to see what they say
about this.
We also have not heard
from the White House
on this front either.
But I just want to tell you,
this is something
that is still
every single day here
in Tel Aviv, everywhere in Israel.
This is something that everyone's
talking about.
Of course, Shabbat
happens on Friday evenings.
This is when everyone, their family,
their friends get together
and have a dinner in the Jewish faith.
And earlier,
we went to this
this ceremony
for all of these families
of these hostages.
And they had this
incredibly long dining
table set up with a seat
for every person who is believed
to have been taken hostage by Hamas
and therefore will not be
with their families for Shabbat dinner.
And it was an
incredibly emotional moment.
And so
just this news in and of itself
that two of them
have been released,
that they are alive
is something that is going to be helpful
to these families
who are waiting for any piece,
any scrap of information
about their loved ones.
And so, of course, the question remains
what happens to the other hostages?
What does that look like going forward?
I think there are still so many questions
for these two American hostages
that are being released,
including where
they are going to be released
and to whether that's Egypt,
whether that's here into Israel.
Those are still big questions
and we're still waiting for details
over what that looks like.
And also, Brianna,
as you mentioned, what it could mean
for the others
and how Hamas plans to use them.
One other thing
I will say that
we talked about last night
and this was in an interview
with The New York Times,
a Hamas leader said that
they are not even in control
over all the hostages,
that there are other terrorist groups,
obviously, in Gaza,
and they did not have full control
over them.
Obviously,
something that would complicate
getting the release of these other
hostages. Caitlin, please stand by.
We want to bring in
Jim Sciutto now
because, Jim,
you just spoke to a long time
hostage representative.
That's what I spoke to. Jonathan Frank.
So sure you've spoken with him before.
He's been involved.
For instance,
the release of the American travel
read from Russia
also worked on the trafficking case
in North Korea.
And I asked him
what in his experience,
a release like this might indicate.
He said,
given the number of hostages
that Hamas is holding to release to
could be an attempt
just to relieve the pressure somewhat.
I mean, you're in the midst of it,
a quite aggressive,
devastating Israeli
air campaign threat of a ground
offensive, demands
for humanitarian supplies
to relieve the pressure.
Does not necessarily portend
that all the hostages
are going to be freed quickly.
He makes the point
and Caitlin made this point as well,
that in previous hostage
exchanges with Hamas,
they've demanded a great deal
in return, particularly
when it involves a soldier,
friends, for instance,
Gilad Shalit, a thousand
Palestinian prisoners were released.
So so it may be, as you look at this,
that you have different
kinds of hostages.
Here's a mother and daughter,
apparently that the mother in ill health.
They can
make the case that
this is more of a humanitarian case
for soldiers.
They might deal differently
for men of military age.
They might be
They might deal different
differently as well.
But again,
Hamas is a group that takes hostages.
Hamas is a group that kills civilians.
We don't need more evidence of that.
A decision like this does not mean
Hamas has changed.
It means that it sees something
it wants something in return
or it sees
this as being in their advantage.
And perhaps there was some pressure
applied from outside as well.
And Alex, I understand
you have some information
about how this negotiation went down.
Well, Jim is absolutely right
in terms of the pressure
being applied from outside.
Hamas is considered
a terrorist organization, of course, by
not just Israel,
but the United States as well.
And that means that those two countries
don't have a direct dialog with Hamas.
So in this situation
and this has been the case
for much of the past two weeks
since these 200 or so people were taken,
is that it was primarily Qatar
that was engaging with Hamas
They are the main conduit for
Israel in the U.S.
to talk to that militant group,
which has
several Hamas leaders
who live in their capital in Doha.
So this really has
been the portfolio that the U.S.
has asked Qatar to undertake
when Secretary
Anthony Blinken was crisscrossing
the region,
going to all these
different Middle Eastern countries.
He very quickly went to Qatar,
and that was because
they have this direct line into Hamas.
And so
here this is
both according to the sources
that we have spoken with,
but also Hamas themselves,
the result of this negotiation
between Hamas and Qatar.
But no doubt the presence of these
still around
200 hostages who will still be
in the custody of Hamas and other groups
we understand,
or subgroups
all across the Gaza Strip
that is going to
wildly complicate the efforts
of the Israeli
military, who, of course,
we believe
are going to go into Gaza on the ground
any day now.
We've been talking about this
sprawling network of tunnels
throughout the Gaza Strip.
We understand that the hostages
may be in those tunnels,
maybe in the bunkers.
And so as Israel goes in
to try to decapitate the Hamas
military and political leadership,
not only are they
trying to minimize the civilian death
toll on the Palestinian side,
but they're obviously trying to
make sure that that nothing happens
to these hostages
and try to get them out.
So while Israel is saying
that they're not going to be negotiating
with Hamas,
over these hostages, this effort by Qatar
will be ongoing to try
to get more than just these
two Americans out.